Review of codex's ticker search work
Architecture is genuinely solid. All eight steps in codex's plan landed: identifier-aware search, MIC-normalized dedup, asset-class chips, favorites, watchlist + popular quick picks, skeleton loaders, error retry, smart debounce (120ms for likely tickers, 220ms otherwise), 30s in-memory cache, persisted catalog table with background hydration, and TradingView-style row design. No obvious dead code, the schema/codegen pipeline is consistent, and the OpenAPI types match.

But here's why it actually feels "very slow and poor":

I just hit the search endpoint directly, in order, simulating typing:

AAPL    1.02s   200   (catalog hit, warm)
AAPL    0.005s  200   (cache hit, perfect)
MSFT    2.67s   499   ← ABORTED at 2.5s budget
tesl    2.52s   499   ← ABORTED
AA      2.51s   499   ← ABORTED
NVD     1.85s   200
AMD     0.94s   200
BTC     0.025s  200

Three of eight queries time out at the 2.5 s interactive budget. That's the user's experience: type M-S-F-T, wait 2.5 s, get "Search failed". Meanwhile the api-server is also saturated — /api/bars is taking 5–15 s, /api/flow/events 5–21 s, /api/streams/bars aborted at 65 s. The IBKR bridge is being hammered with /accounts + /executions polls every 1.5 s. So even when secdef/search would normally be fast, the search request lines up behind that queue.

There are also two design issues amplifying the problem:

Aborted searches teach nothing. Status 499 means nothing gets upserted into the persisted catalog — so next time the user types "MSFT" it does the same slow live fan-out and times out again.
INTERACTIVE_IBKR_MARKET_GROUPS fans out to 5 separate IBKR calls (stocks/etf/otc, indices, futures, fx, crypto) even when the user has the "All" filter. Each has a 2.2 s budget. One slow group is enough to blow the parent 2.5 s budget.
Catalog-only fast path (shouldUseUniverseCatalogImmediateResponse) requires the catalog to already have results. For a brand-new ticker like "MSFT" not yet in the catalog, you get the slow path forever.
What I'd change (concrete, ordered by impact)
A. Always return what we have, never 499. Convert the live fan-out from "block until done" to "race with a 1.0 s soft deadline": return catalog results immediately if any exist, and let the live providers update the catalog in the background. If catalog is empty, give the live fan-out 1.5 s, then return whatever subset arrived (even just IBKR or just Polygon) instead of aborting. This alone fixes the "Search failed" feel.

B. Race IBKR market groups, don't sequence. Fire all 5 IBKR groups in parallel with a shared 1.2 s budget and merge whatever returned. Today the fanout is structured per-group with its own budget; in practice this serializes when the bridge is busy. Race + first-3-respond-wins is dramatically faster.

C. Seed the catalog with the top ~500 US equities + popular ETFs/crypto on startup (one-shot import). Then the catalog cold-path becomes basically nonexistent for the names users actually search.

D. Frontend: split MiniChartTickerSearch out of RayAlgoPlatform.jsx. The 575 KB monolith re-renders on every keystroke and Babel has deoptimized its codegen — that's a real input-lag tax even before the network round-trip. This is a 30-min mechanical extraction.

E. Throttle the polling that's saturating the api-server, separately. /accounts and /executions every 1.5 s is overkill; 5–10 s is plenty for a UI poll, and that frees the bridge to answer secdef/search instantly. (This is broader than ticker search but it's the systemic cause.)